PoSt workers page (#114)
filecoin-project/lotus-docs: content/en/storage-providers/seal-workers/post-workers.md

---
title: "PoSt workers"
description: "PoSt workers are specilized instances of a `lotus-worker`. It enables you to offload windowPoSt and winningPoSt to seperate workers."

> lead: "PoSt workers are specilized instances of a `lotus-worker`. It enables you to offload windowPoSt and winningPoSt to seperate workers."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lead: "PoSt workers are specialized instances of a `lotus-worker`. It enables you to offload windowPoSt and winningPoSt to separate workers."
```

draft: false
menu:
    storage-providers:
        parent: "storage-providers-seal-workers"
weight: 120
toc: true
---

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< alert icon="warning" >}}
This feature is supported since lotus v1.15.2.
 {{< /alert >}}
```

While the Lotus Miner runs _windowPoSt_ and _winningPoSt_ by default, you can use specialized lotus workers to create a cluster of windowPoSt and winningPoSt workers to handle multiple Proof-of-Spacetime partitions simultaneously.

A lotus worker instance can only be one of the following:
- WindowPoSt worker
- WinningPoSt worker
- Worker for sealing tasks

## Launching PoSt workers

Before launching your PoSt worker you need to ensure that your worker meets the minimal requirements for the job it is going to perfom. You should also consider how the PoSt workers can access the sealed sectors and setting the correct enviroment variables before you run the workers.

### Minminal spec requirements

These are the minimal requirements for running each of the PoSt tasks:

| **Task**    | **GPU**            | **VRAM** | **RAM** |
|:-----------:|:------------------:|:--------:|:-------:|
| winningPoSt | Highly recommended |  6GiB*   |  64GiB* |

> | windowPoSt  | Highly recommended | 8\.5GiB  | 128GiB  |

Author: Used an online md table generator so probably residual formatting if you think about the `/`

{{< /alert >}}

### Remote storage access

The windowPoSt process requires reading random leafs of all the sealed sectors in a proving deadline. When setting up windowPoSt workers one needs to consider how the workers can access those files. The PoSt workers can ask any other worker to read challenges for them, including the lotus-miner process, but it will prefer reading it from local paths.

{{< alert icon="warning" >}}
Storage providers should design their worker sectors access according to their setup size and also redundancy required. If only one worker has read access to the sealed sectors, it can create a single point of failure. If you have multiple partitions in a deadline, having multiple PoSt workers requesting a single worker to read challenges for them may cause unwanted I/O load.
{{< /alert >}}

### Environment variables

Remember to have the appropriate Nvidia-drivers and nvidia-opencl-icd installed if running OpenCL on your worker. If using CUDA, install the CUDA-toolkit and build lotus binaries with `FFI_USE_CUDA=1`

The following environment variables are required to be set before starting the worker.

> ```
> export MINER_API_INFO:<TOKEN>:/ip4/<miner_api_address>/tcp/<port>/http
> export BELLMAN_CUSTOM_GPU="MODEL-NAME:CORES" # If you´re using a custom GPU
> export FIL_PROOFS_PARAMETER_CACHE=/fast/disk/folder # > 100GiB!
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
export MINER_API_INFO:<TOKEN>:/ip4/<miner_api_address>/tcp/<port>/http
export BELLMAN_CUSTOM_GPU="MODEL-NAME:CORES" # If you´re using a custom GPU
export FIL_PROOFS_PARAMETER_CACHE=/fast/disk/folder # > 100GiB!
```
````

> When the PoSt worker starts, it needs to read and verify the Filecoin proof parameters. We recommend copying them over from your lotus-miner machine. Otherwise, they will be downloaded locally on first run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the PoSt worker starts, it needs to read and verify the Filecoin proof parameters. We recommend copying them over from your `lotus-miner` machine. Otherwise, they will be downloaded locally on first run.
```

> The PoSt workers will fail to start if the file descriptor limit is not set high enough. This limit can be raised temporarily before starting the worker by running the command `ulimit -n 1048576`. Although, we recommend setting it permanently by following the [Permanently Setting Your ULIMIT System Value]({{< relref "kb#soft-fd-limit" >}}) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PoSt workers will fail to start if the file descriptor limit is not set high enough. You can raise this limit temporarily before starting the worker by running the command `ulimit -n 1048576`. Although, we recommend setting it permanently by following the [Permanently Setting Your ULIMIT System Value]({{< relref "kb#soft-fd-limit" >}}) guide.
```

{{< alert icon="tip" >}}
When fetching parameter files, remember to set the [`IPFS_GATEWAY` variable when running from China]({{< relref "nodes-in-china" >}})
{{< /alert >}}

### Run the PoSt worker

> ```shell
> lotus-worker run <flags>
> ```
> 
> The above command will start the worker. You´ll need to specify which PoSt operation you want the worker to perform with one of the following flags set to true.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Use the `run` command to start the worker:

```shell
lotus-worker run <flags>
```

You´ll need to specify which PoSt operation you want the worker to perform with one of the following flags set to true:
````

> ```
>    --winningpost                 enable winning post (default: false)
>    --windowpost                  enable window post (default: false)
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```plaintext
--winningpost                 enable winning post (default: false)
--windowpost                  enable window post (default: false)
```
````

A PoSt worker instance can only be either a winningPoSt worker, or a windowPoSt worker. Enabling a PoSt tasks will automatically disable all other tasks.

> When a winningPoSt or windowPoSt worker connects to the _lotus-miner_, the lotus miner will delegate all winningPoSt or windowPoSt tasks to that worker. If both tasks are delegated to seperate PoSt workers, no PoSt tasks will be executed locally on the miner instance. If a worker is stopped, the lotus-miner instance switches back to local PoSt automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a winningPoSt or windowPoSt worker connects to the `lotus-miner`, it will delegate all winningPoSt or windowPoSt tasks to that worker. If both tasks are delegated to separate PoSt workers, the `lotus-miner` will execute no PoSt tasks locally on the miner instance. If a worker is stopped, the `lotus-miner` instance automatically switches back to local PoSt.
```

> You can verify that PoSt workers are connected to the lotus-miner with `lotus-miner proving workers`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can verify that PoSt workers are connected to the `lotus-miner` with `lotus-miner proving workers`:
```

> ```shell
> $ lotus-miner proving workers
> Worker 0, host windowPoSt
>         CPU:  [                                                                ] 0/48 core(s) in use
>         RAM:  [|                                                               ] 1% 4.005 GiB/119.2 GiB
>         VMEM: [|                                                               ] 1% 4.005 GiB/119.2 GiB
>         GPU:  [                                                                ] 0% 0.00/1 gpu(s) in use
>         GPU: GeForce RTX 2080 Ti, not used
> 
> Worker 1, host winningPoSt
>         CPU:  [                                                                ] 0/16 core(s) in use
>         RAM:  [|                                                               ] 1% 4.005 GiB/119.2 GiB
>         VMEM: [|                                                               ] 1% 4.005 GiB/119.2 GiB
>         GPU:  [                                                                ] 0% 0.00/1 gpu(s) in use
>         GPU: GeForce RTX 2080 Ti, not used
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
lotus-miner proving workers
> Worker 0, host windowPoSt
>         CPU:  [                                                                ] 0/48 core(s) in use
>         RAM:  [|                                                               ] 1% 4.005 GiB/119.2 GiB
>         VMEM: [|                                                               ] 1% 4.005 GiB/119.2 GiB
>         GPU:  [                                                                ] 0% 0.00/1 gpu(s) in use
>         GPU: GeForce RTX 2080 Ti, not used
> 
> Worker 1, host winningPoSt
>         CPU:  [                                                                ] 0/16 core(s) in use
>         RAM:  [|                                                               ] 1% 4.005 GiB/119.2 GiB
>         VMEM: [|                                                               ] 1% 4.005 GiB/119.2 GiB
>         GPU:  [                                                                ] 0% 0.00/1 gpu(s) in use
>         GPU: GeForce RTX 2080 Ti, not used
```
````

> You can also verify that PoSt workers are connected in the workers-section of `lotus-miner info`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also verify that PoSt workers are connected in the workers section of `lotus-miner info`.
```

> ```shell
> $ lotus-miner info
> Workers:
> 	Seal: 15
> 	WdPoSt: 4
> 	WinPoSt: 3
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
lotus-miner info

> Workers:
> 	Seal: 15
> 	WdPoSt: 4
> 	WinPoSt: 3
```
````

## Multiple partitions

> If you have multiple partitions in a single proving deadline and multiple windowPoSt workers, each partition will run on seperate workers in parallel, up to the number of partitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have multiple partitions in a single proving deadline and multiple windowPoSt workers, each partition will run on separate workers in parallel, up to the number of partitions.
```

Consider this proving deadline with four full partitions:

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```plaintext
````

lotus-miner proving deadlines
Miner: f011235
deadline  partitions  sectors (faults)  proven partitions
0         4           9396 (0)          0
```

> If the storage provider has four windowPoSt workers connected, each of the partitions will be computed on each of the workers in parallel. If one windowPoSt worker gets disconnected, leaving you with only three windowPoSt workers, the first three partitions will be computed in parallel, while the last partition will be picked up by the first windowPoSt worker to finish its computation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the storage provider has four windowPoSt workers connected, the `lotus-miner` will compute each of the partitions on each of the workers in parallel. If one windowPoSt worker gets disconnected, leaving you with only three windowPoSt workers, the first three partitions will be computed in parallel. The first windowPoSt worker will pick up the last partition to finish its computation.
```

---
title: "PoSt workers"
description: "PoSt workers are specilized instances of a `lotus-worker`. It enables you to offload windowPoSt and winningPoSt to seperate workers."
lead: "PoSt workers are specilized instances of a `lotus-worker`. It enables you to offload windowPoSt and winningPoSt to seperate workers."
draft: false
menu:
    storage-providers:
        parent: "storage-providers-seal-workers"

> aliases:

Reviewer 3: You can remove aliases as this page did not exists before.

{{< /alert >}}

### Remote storage access

The windowPoSt process requires reading random leafs of all the sealed sectors in a proving deadline, so when setting up windowPoSt workers one needs to consider how the workers can access those files. By default 

At least one PoSt worker needs local read access to the sealed sectors. If you have multiple PoSt workers, workers without local sector access will ask workers with sector access to read challenges from their storage.

The lotus-miner instance disables PoSt-work when a PoSt worker is connected, meaning that a single windowPoSt worker can not rely on reading challenges from the lotus-miner instance. And therefore needs read access to the sealed sectors. 

{{< alert icon="warning" >}}
Storage providers should design their sealed sector access depending on their setup size and also redundancy required. If only one PoSt worker has access to the sealed sector that can create a single point of failure. If you have multiple partitions in a deadline, having multiple PoSt workers reading challenges from the same source may cause unwanted I/O load.
{{< /alert >}}

### Environment variables

> Ensure that workers have access to the following environment variables when they run. These are similar to those used by the Miner daemon ([explained in the setup guide]({{< relref "setup" >}})):

Reviewer 3: Use full path in relrefs for now. We have another challenge with relrefs due to KB section's current functionality. Refer to https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus-docs/pull/112#discussion_r835458074 for more details

```
# MINER_API_INFO as obtained before
export MINER_API_INFO:<TOKEN>:/ip4/<miner_api_address>/tcp/<port>/http`
export MARKETS_API_INFO:<TOKEN>:/ip4/<miner_api_address>/tcp/<port>/http`
export BELLMAN_CPU_UTILIZATION=0.875      # optimal value depends on exact hardware
export FIL_PROOFS_MAXIMIZE_CACHING=1
export FIL_PROOFS_USE_GPU_COLUMN_BUILDER=1 # when GPU is available
export FIL_PROOFS_USE_GPU_TREE_BUILDER=1   # when GPU is available
export FIL_PROOFS_PARAMETER_CACHE=/fast/disk/folder # > 100GiB!
export FIL_PROOFS_PARENT_CACHE=/fast/disk/folder2   # > 50GiB!
```

The PoSt workers will fail to start if the file descriptor limit is not set high enough. Raise the the file descriptor limit temporarily before running with `ulimit -n 1048576` or permanently by following the [Permanently Setting Your ULIMIT System Value](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/discussions/6198) guide.

> 

Reviewer 3: Can we add a suggestion to copy over the proofs from miner here as an alternative? It would be quicker and we all do it anyways.

Author: Good idea, I will add that as section between the env-vars and the FD-descriptor limit section

```shell
$ lotus-miner proving workers
Worker 0, host computer
        CPU:  [                                                                ] 0 core(s) in use
        RAM:  [||||||||||||||||||                                              ] 28% 18.1 GiB/62.7 GiB
        VMEM: [||||||||||||||||||                                              ] 28% 18.1 GiB/62.7 GiB

Worker 1, host othercomputer
        CPU:  [                                                                ] 0 core(s) in use
        RAM:  [||||||||||||||                                                  ] 23% 14 GiB/119.2 GiB
        VMEM: [||||||||||||||                                                  ] 23% 14 GiB/119.2 GiB
        GPU: GeForce RTX 2080, not used
```

You can also verify that PoSt workers are connected in the workers-section of `lotus-miner info`.

```shell
$ lotus-miner info
Workers:
	Seal: 15
	WdPoSt: 4
	WinPoSt: 3
```

### Optional settings

Although the default settings are reasonable you can configure some advanced settings when running the PoSt workers, that can be tested for local optimizations of your hardware.

> 

Reviewer 3: Could this result in delayed windowPost? If yes, can we add the warning for the same? Since it could lead to slashing.

```
   --post-parallel-reads value   maximum number of parallel challenge reads (0 = no limit) (default: 0)
```

Lets you set an upper boundary of how many challenges it reads from your storage simultaneously. At defualt this is set to no limit, meaning that it will try to read all challenges at the same time from your storage.

> ```

Author: Added a general warning that these are advanced settings, and putting values at extremes may cause failed windowPoSts

draft: false
menu:
    storage-providers:
        parent: "storage-providers-seal-workers"
weight: 120
toc: true
---

While the Lotus Miner runs _windowPoSt_ and _winningPoSt_ by default, you can use specialized lotus workers to create a cluster of windowPoSt and winningPoSt workers to handle multiple Proof-of-Spacetime partitions simultaneously.

A lotus worker instance can only be one of the following:
- WindowPoSt worker
- WinningPoSt worker
- Worker for sealing tasks

## Launching PoSt workers

Before launching your PoSt worker you need to ensure that your worker meets the minimal requirements for the job it is going to perfom. You should also consider how the PoSt workers can access the sealed sectors<> and setting the correct enviroment variables before you run the workers.

### Minminal spec requirements

These are the minimal requirements for running each of the PoSt tasks:

| **Task**    | **GPU**            | **VRAM** | **RAM** |
|:-----------:|:------------------:|:--------:|:-------:|
| winningPoSt | Highly recommended |          |         |
| windowPoSt  | Highly recommended | 8\.5GiB  | 128GiB  |

{{< alert icon="callout" >}}

> Although both tasks can be run with a powerful CPU, it is highly recommended to run on GPU as it speeds up the process significantly, and therefore reducing the chance to miss windowPoSt or winningPoSt

Reviewer 4: > speeds up the process significantly, and therefore reducing

This doesn't read right. Suggest either using:

> speeds up the process significantly, and therefore reduces
 
 or 
 
> speeds up the process significantly, therefore reducing

{{< alert icon="warning" >}}
Storage providers should design their worker sectors access according to their setup size and also redundancy required. If only one worker has read access to the sealed sectors, it can create a single point of failure. If you have multiple partitions in a deadline, having multiple PoSt workers requesting a single worker to read challenges for them may cause unwanted I/O load.
{{< /alert >}}

### Environment variables

Remember to have the appropriate Nvidia-drivers and nvidia-opencl-icd installed if running OpenCL on your worker. If using CUDA, install the CUDA-toolkit and build lotus binaries with `FFI_USE_CUDA=1`

The following environment variables are required to be set before starting the worker. These variables are similar to those set on the lotus-miner node as [explained in the setup guide]({{< relref "configure#setup" >}}):

```
export MINER_API_INFO:<TOKEN>:/ip4/<miner_api_address>/tcp/<port>/http
export BELLMAN_CUSTOM_GPU="MODEL-NAME:CORES" # If you´re using a custom GPU
export FIL_PROOFS_PARAMETER_CACHE=/fast/disk/folder # > 100GiB!

> export FIL_PROOFS_PARENT_CACHE=/fast/disk/folder2   # > 50GiB!

Reviewer 5: Parent cache is not needed for PoSt

```

> For the PoSt worker to start, it will need to read and verify the Filecoin proof parameters. These are the same parameters as is currently on the lotus-miner instance. We recomend copying them over from your lotus-miner machine, else they will be downloaded on first run.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the PoSt worker starts, it needs to read and verify the Filecoin proof parameters. We recommend copying them over from your lotus-miner machine. Otherwise, they will be downloaded locally on first run.
```

> The PoSt workers will fail to start if the file descriptor limit is not set high enough. This limit can be raised temporarily before starting the worker by running the command `ulimit -n 1048576`. Although, we recommend setting it permanently by following the [Permanently Setting Your ULIMIT System Value]({{< relref "kb#soft-fd-limit" >}}) guide.

Reviewer 5: As of https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/8390 all workers (sealing / post) require at least 100k fd limit, so we probably want to add this note to sealing worker page as well

Author: Nice! Will add it to that page as well.

> The PoSt workers will fail to start if the file descriptor limit is not set high enough. Raise the the file descriptor limit temporarily before running with `ulimit -n 1048576` or permanently by following the [Permanently Setting Your ULIMIT System Value](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/discussions/6198) guide.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The PoSt workers will fail to start if the file descriptor limit is not set high enough. This limit can be raised temporarily before starting the worker by running the command `ulimit -n 1048576`. Although, we recommend setting it permanently by following the [Permanently Setting Your ULIMIT System Value](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/discussions/6198) guide.
```

Reviewer 3: @rjan90 Can we create a KB article out of https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/discussions/6198 in near future and modify this link to point to the article later.

> The PoSt workers will fail to start if the file descriptor limit is not set high enough. Raise the the file descriptor limit temporarily before running with `ulimit -n 1048576` or permanently by following the [Permanently Setting Your ULIMIT System Value](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/discussions/6198) guide.

Reviewer 4: Would it be better to link to https://lotus.filecoin.io/kb/soft-fd-limit/ here? It is more current and keeps the user within lotus-docs.

Author: Totally agree! Will fix that

Author: Totally agree! Will fix that

        GPU:  [                                                                ] 0% 0.00/1 gpu(s) in use
        GPU: GeForce RTX 2080 Ti, not used

Worker 1, host winningPoSt
        CPU:  [                                                                ] 0/16 core(s) in use
        RAM:  [|                                                               ] 1% 4.005 GiB/119.2 GiB
        VMEM: [|                                                               ] 1% 4.005 GiB/119.2 GiB
        GPU:  [                                                                ] 0% 0.00/1 gpu(s) in use
        GPU: GeForce RTX 2080 Ti, not used
```

You can also verify that PoSt workers are connected in the workers-section of `lotus-miner info`.

```shell
$ lotus-miner info
Workers:
	Seal: 15
	WdPoSt: 4
	WinPoSt: 3
```

### Advanced settings

Although the default settings are reasonable you can configure some advanced settings when running the PoSt workers, that can be tested for local optimizations of your hardware.

{{< alert icon="tip" >}}
Use with caution as changing these values to extremes might cause you to miss windowPoSt.
{{< /alert >}}

```

>    --post-parallel-reads value   maximum number of parallel challenge reads (0 = no limit) (default: 128)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   --post-parallel-reads value   # maximum number of parallel challenge reads (0 = no limit) (default: 128)
```

Author: I think maybe we should keep them without the #, at least that is what we have done here: [https://lotus.filecoin.io/storage-providers/seal-workers/seal-workers/#run-the-worker](https://lotus.filecoin.io/storage-providers/seal-workers/seal-workers/#run-the-worker)

```

Lets you set an upper boundary of how many challenges it reads from your storage simultaneously. At defualt this is set to 128.

```

>    --post-read-timeout value     time limit for reading PoSt challenges (0 = no limit) (default: 0s)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   --post-read-timeout value     # time limit for reading PoSt challenges (0 = no limit) (default: 0s)
```

```

Lets you set a cut off time for reading challenges from storage, after which it will abort the job. At default this is set to no limit.

## Multiple partitions

If you have multiple partitions in a single proving deadline and multiple windowPoSt workers, each partition will run on seperate workers in parallel, up to the number of partitions.

Consider this proving deadline with four full partitions:

```
lotus-miner proving deadlines
Miner: f011235
deadline  partitions  sectors (faults)  proven partitions
0         4           9396 (0)          0
```

If the storage provider has four windowPoSt workers connected, each of the partitions will be computed on each of the workers in parallel. If one windowPoSt worker gets disconnected, leaving you with only three windowPoSt workers, the first three partitions will be computed in parallel, while the last partition will be picked up by the first windowPoSt worker to finish its computation.

### Testing the setup

> When doing changes to your PoSt setup it is useful to verify that the changes works as intended without testing it on a real proving period and risk failing windowPoSt. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When making changes to your PoSt setup it is useful to verify that the changes works as intended without testing it on a real proving period and risk failing windowPoSt. 
```
